preview text (paragraph):

Channel Nee Soon | Leak of AqH2O at Canberra Canal "Not Harmful", Scientist Reports.

YISHUN - Researchers at the University of Nee Soon recently detected an elevated concentration of aqueous dihydrogen monoxide (AqH2O) in Canberra Canal, the river flowing between Yishun and Sembawang. The culprit releasing the chemical is unknown, but experts believe that the leak may be linked to recent rainy weather.

Using classified technology based on an ancient Greek invention known as a "straightedge", in addition to a complex optical instrument commonly referred to as "eyes" (Chinese: "yan jing"), scientists have noted an increase in the depth of the river. Preliminary readings indicate that the additional fluid is the chemical "aqueous dihydrogen monoxide".

The chemical involved is a colourless liquid at room temperature. When heated, its volume may drastically, occasionally explosively, expand. It is estimated that over a trillion microlitres of the liquid entered the river during the leak. Aqueous dihydrogen monoxide is a solvent that dissolves a wide variety of materials, including extremely hard crystals of sodium chloride. It also encourages the growth of mold and under certain conditions, can be correlated with the spread of dengue. Furthermore, the chemical is the acid with the highest pH level, with a pH level that is numerically 7 times that of stomach acid. Over 99% of patients who died from disease in the past year had ingested a significant amount of the substance within the week of their deaths.

Although this sounds like an ecological disaster, experts in the field of PSLE Science believe that the chemical leak poses no threat to the health and safety of residents living in nearby areas (e.g. Yishun North, Chong Pang, and East Canberra). It is believed that the leak is a natural occurence and no further investigation is required. The public is advised to remain calm.

More on this topic
Osmosis and How It Makes Your Cells Swollen and Cute
CNS Explains: Answering PSLE Heat Transfer Questions

Swollen Cell is a correspondent at Channel Nee Soon (CNS), reporting on all issues concerning the storage and movement of aqueous dihydrogen monoxide.

See More On
<Yishun North> <Aqueous Dihydrogen Monoxide (AqH2O)>
<How to Become Swollen>
